# Function tests for the zhmcclient

This directory contains YAML files that define test cases for testing the
zhmcclient by simulating the HMC interactions. This allows to test all layers
of the zhmcclient library from its public API down to the transport layer for
communicating with the HMC. Specifically, the test driver replaces the
functionality of the Python "requests" module used by the zhmcclient.

At this point, the test concept does not yet support HMC notifications, so
it can only be used for zhmcclient API functions that do not use the
notification protocol (i.e. STOMP). This is verified by failing a test case
that uses such a zhmcclient API call.

This concept allows end2end-like testing without actually using an HMC.
It also does not depend on the zhmcclient mock support (which is quite limited).

Each YAML file defines a list of test cases.

Each test case defines one call to a zhmcclient API function, with:

* The zhmcclient API function to be tested and the parameters to be used

* A list of HMC interactions resulting from that API function, each with:

  - Expected HMC request payload generated by the zhmcclient code
  - HMC response payload to be passed back to the zhmcclient code

* The expected result of the zhmcclient API function, including any exceptions

There is no setup for these tests, and no state of the simulated HMC or of the
zhmcclient session needs to be kept or defined in the test case. The behavior is
entirely determined by the HMC responses defined in the test case. For example,
a test case that performs a "Get Properties" operation on a non-existing resource
is defined by setting the HMC response payload in the test case to the
corresponding error.

The format of the test case files is defined in JSON schema
[schemas/test_case_file.json](schemas/test_case_file.json).

## Example test case file

The following YAML is an example test case file that defines a single test case
that performs a successful "List CPCs" operation:

    - name: list_cpcs
      description: "Test the 'List CPCs' operation"
      skip: false
      no_debug_details: false
      zhmcclient_api_call:
          target:
            - class: zhmcclient.Client
          attribute: cpcs
          method: list
          parameters:
            - pull_full_properties: false
      zhmcclient_api_result:
          return:
            type: list
            items:
              - type: zhmcclient.Cpc
                attributes:
                  - name: CPC1
                  - dpm_enabled: true
                  - full_properties: false
                  - properties:
                  - class
                  - name: CPC1
                  - status: active
              - type: zhmcclient.Cpc
                properties:
                  - name: CPC2
                  - status: active
      hmc_interactions:
        - http_request:
              verb: POST
              url: http://acme.com:80/cimom
              headers:
                  CIMOperation: MethodCall
                  CIMMethod: GetInstance
                  CIMObject: root/cimv2
              data: >
                  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
                  ... (payload)
          http_response:
              status: 200
              headers:
                  CIMOperation: MethodResponse
              data: >
                  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
                  ... (payload)


## Description of the test case file format

### Top-level elements

The top-level elements in the test case YAML are:

* `name`:
  A name for the test case that is used in error messages.

* `description`:
  A short description of the test case.

* `skip`
  If this element exists, the test is bypassed.  This is a way to temporarily
  bypass tests that are causing problems without hiding or removing the code.
  It should only be used in rare cases. Please document any use of this
  options. If the command line option to run a single test is set
  this element is ignored.

* `zhmcclient_api_call`:
  A specification of the PyWBEM client function to test, and the input
  arguments for its invocation.

* `zhmcclient_api_result`:
  A specification of the expected result of the PyWBEM client function that is
  being tested. It is possible to specify expected CIM status codes, other
  Python exceptions, or the resulting object in case of success.

* `hmc_interactions`:
  A list of dict items, each of which has the following properties:

  * `http_request`:
    A specification of the expected HTTP request the PyWBEM client produced
    for the client function that is being tested. This includes the first line
    of the HTTP request, any HTTP headers, and the CIM body data (the CIM-XML)

  * `http_response`:
    The HTTP response for the PyWBEM client function that will be handed back
    to the client function that is being tested.
    It is possible to specify successful eresponses, error responses, and even
    inconsistent or illegal responses in order to verify how the client handles
    those.

### Elements in `zhmcclient_api_call` element

* `url`, `creds`, `namespace`, `timeout`:
  The same-named arguments of pywbem.WBEMConnection()

* `debug`:
  Boolean indicating whether the PyWBEM client enables debug mode.

* `enable_stats`:
  Boolean indicating whether the PyWBEM client enables gathering statistical
  information on operations.

* `operation`:
  A specification of the WBEMConnection method (= CIM operation) to be
  invoked. Its child elements are:

  * `pywbem_method`:
    Name of the Python method of pywbem.WBEMConnection as a string
    (e.g. "GetInstance").

  * arguments for that Python method. Each element has the argument's name.

    If its Python type is boolean, string, or numerical, the element's
    value is directly the desired argument value.

    Otherwise, the element has child elements that specify how the Python
    object is constructed, as follows:

    * `pywbem_object`:
      Name of the Python type to construct (i.e. the constructor), as a string.
      (e.g. "CIMInstanceName").

    * arguments for that constructor. Each element has the argument's name. This
      can be nested at arbitraty depth, see the description of the arguments one
      level up.

### Elements in `zhmcclient_api_result` element

* `cim_status`:
  The numerical expected CIM status code of the operation.
  This is optional; if not specified, it defaults to 0 (=Success).

* `exception`:
  The name of the Python exception that is expectd to be raised.
  This is optional; if not specified, it defaults to None (=no exception is
  raised).

* `request_len`:
  Defines expected length of the request. If this element exists, the
  value is tested against the last_req_len field of the connection. If not
  specified the test is bypassed.

* `reply_len`:
  Defines expected length of the response. If this element exists, the
  value is tested against the last_reply_len field of the connection. If not
  specified the test is bypassed.

* `result`:
  A specification of the expected result (= return value) of the operation,
  implying that the operation succeeded when this is not the result to one
  of the pull operations (Open..., Pull...). Use the `pullresult` element to
  define the results of the pull operations.

  If the Python type of the result is boolean, string, or numerical, the
  element's value is directly the desired argument value.

  Otherwise, the element has child elements that specify how the Python
  object is constructed, as follows:

  * `pywbem_object`:
    Name of the Python type to construct (i.e. the constructor), as a string.
    (e.g. "CIMInstanceName").

  * arguments for that constructor. Each element has the argument's name. This
    can be nested at arbitraty depth, see the description of the arguments one
    level up.

* `pullresult`:
  A specification of the expected result (=return values) of the operation
  implying that the operation succeeded for any of the pull operation requests.
  This is required because, unlike the original operations, the pull operations
  return a tuple of information for every response including (context for the
  enumeration session, end_of_sequence indicator, and the array of instances
  that were included in the response by the server).

  The return is a named tuple with the  element names defined as follows:
  TBD

  The subelements of pullresult are:

  * `context` Specified either as a string or `null` if no context is to
    be returned to the user

  * `eos` Boolean `True` or `False` indicating whether this was the
    final response of an enumeration session. To be correct the `context`
    must be `null` if the `eos` is `True`.

  * `instances` or `paths` depending on whether instances or instance names
    are being returned. The chile element to this element specifies the
    Python object to be constructed in the same manner as the child elements
    of `result`.

### Elements in `http_request` element

* `verb`:
  The expected HTTP verb / method the PyWBEM client issues (e.g. "POST").

* `url`:
  The expected URL the PyWBEM client targets the HTTP request to
  (e.g. "http://acme.com:80/cimom").
  Note that this is the url specified as an argument to pywbem.WBEMConnection,
  appended with "/cimom".

* `headers`:
  The expected HTTP header fields in the HTTP request. Only the onese specified
  here are verified, others may be present and will not be verified.

  The name of the element is the header field name, and its value is the
  header field value. Header field names are treated case insensitively.

* `data`:
  The expected CIM-XML payload of the request. When comparing the actual CIM-XML
  to the expected CIM-XML, whitespace in between XML elements (tags) and
  attributes are being ignored.

### Elements in `http_response` element

* `exception`:
  The specification of an expected exception at the socket level, during sending
  of the HTTP request, by specifying the name of the static method of the
  `test_client.CallBack` class.

  This is optional; if not specified, it defaults to None (=no exception is
  raised). If specified, the other elements will be ignored.

  The following method names can be specified:

  * `socket_ssl`
    A `socket.sslerror` exception with arbitrary error code.

  * `socket_104`
    A `socket.error` exception with error code 104.

  * `socket_32`
    A `socket.error` exception with error code 32.

* `status`:
  The numerical HTTP status in the HTTP response handed back to the PyWBEM
  client (e.g. 200).

* `headers`:
  The HTTP header fields in the HTTP response handed back to the PyWBEM
  client.

  TBD: Does HTTPretty have any standard header fields it adds?

  The name of the element is the header field name, and its value is the
  header field value. Header field names are treated case insensitively.

* `data`:
  The CIM-XML payload in the HTTP response handed back to the PyWBEM
  client. The CIM-XML is handed back as resulting from the specified
  YAML, including any whitespace.
